The butterfly wanted a sweetheart, and naturally he wanted one
of the prettiest of the dear little flowers. He looked at each of
them; there they all sat on their stalks as quiet and modest as
little maidens ought to sit before they are engaged; but there
were so many to choose from that it would be quite difficult to
decide. So the Butterfly flew down to the Daisy, whom the French
call "Marguerite." They know she can tell fortunes. This is the
way it's done: the lovers pluck off the little petals one
by one, asking questions about each other, "Does he love me from
the heart? A little? A lot? Or loves he not at all?" - or
something like that; everyone asks in his own language. So the
Butterfly also came to ask, but he wouldn't bite off the
leaves; instead he kissed each one in turn, thinking that
kindness is the best policy.
"Sweet Miss Marguerite Daisy," he said,
"you're the wisest woman of all the flowers - you can
tell fortunes! Tell me, should I choose this one or that one?
Which one am I to have? When you have told me, I can fly straight
to her and propose."
But Marguerite answered not a word. She resented
his calling her "a woman," for she was unmarried and quite young.
He put his question a second time, and then a third time, and
when he still get a word out of her he gave up and flew away to
begin his wooing.
It was early spring; the snowdrops and crocuses
were growing in abundance. "They're really very charming,"
said the Butterfly. "Neat little schoolgirls, but a bit too
sweet." For, like all very young men, he preferred older girls.
So he flew to the anemones, but they were a bit too bitter for
his taste. The violets were a little too sentimental, the tulips
much too gay. The lilies too middle class, the linden blossoms
too small, and, besides, there were too many in their family. He
admitted the apple blossoms looked like roses, but if they opened
one day and the wind blew they fell to pieces the very next;
surely such a marriage would be far too brief. He liked the sweet
pea best of all; she was red and white, dainty and delicate, and
belonged to that class of domestic girl who is pretty yet useful
in the kitchen. He was about to propose to her when he noticed a
pea pod hanging near by, with a withered flower clinging to it.
"Who's that?" he asked.
"It's my sister," said the pea flower.
"Oh, so that's how you'll look later
on!" This frightened the Butterfly, and away he flew.
Honeysuckles hung over the hedges; there were
plenty of those girls, long-faced and with yellow complexions.
No, he didn't like that kind at all. Yes, but what
did he like? You ask him!
Spring passed and summer passed; then autumn
came, and he was still no nearer making up his mind. Now the
flowers wore beautiful, colorful dresses, but what good did that
do? The fresh, fragrant youth had passed, and it is fragrance the
heart needs as one grows older; and of course dahlias and
hollysocks have no particular fragrance. So the Butterfly went to
see the mint.
"It's not exactly a flower - or
rather it's all flower, fragrant from root to top, with
sweet scent in every leaf. Yes, she's the one I want!" So
at last he proposed to her.
But the mint stood stiff and silent, and at last
said, "Friendship, if you like, but nothing else. I'm old,
and you're old, too. It would be all right to live for each
other, but marriage - no! Don't let's make
fools of ourselves in our old age!"
And so the Butterfly did not find a sweetheart
at all. He had hesitated too long, and one shouldn't do
that! The Butterfly became an old bachelor, as we call it.
Now it was a windy and wet late autumn; the wind
blew cold down the backs of the poor trembling old willows. And
that made them creak all over. When the weather is like that it
isn't pleasant to fly about in summer clothing, outside.
But the Butterfly was not flying out-of-doors; he had happened to
fly into a room where there was a fire in the stove and the air
was as warm as summer. Here he could at least keep alive. "But
just to keep alive isn't enough," he said. "To live you
must have sunshine and freedom and a little flower to love!"
And he flew against the windowpane, was noticed
by people, admired, and set on a needle to be stored in a
butterfly collection. This was the most they could do for
him.
"Now I'm sitting on a stalk, just like the
flowers," said the Butterfly. "It isn't very much fun;
it's just like being married, you're bound up so
tightly!" He comforted himself with this reflection.
"A poor consolation, after all," said the pot
plants in the room.
"But you can't take the opinion of pot
plants," thought the Butterfly. "They converse too much with
human beings!"
